All right so here's the challenge.
We know how to do things on
a regular interval like change
the number on a screen.
We know how to fetch data.
Changing a number on a screen
not that impressive however,
there you can see a world.
And this is where I had to implement
this last week, which is like cool,
fetch the data but then fetch it again,
every so often, right?
Like every 30 seconds every minute.
Like if you're working on like, let's say
a dashboard right you want to shoot maybe
you have long pole and
we have WebSockets maybe you don't right.
So depending on what you have available
you might have to take different
techniques so one is simply to refetch at
some kind of reasonable interval right.
So how would we combine a little bit
of what we saw with starting and
stopping observable with theoretically,
pull up some data and
then every so on and so forth,
refresh and reload that data, right.
That is definitely a probably more
realistic use case then I counter, right.
But effectively under the hood,
it's just a counter, right?
It's the same concept.
It's just, sometimes you got to
snap two things together for
it to be somewhat impressive.
So, okay, how would this work?
I'm gonna move my error back one of
the reasons why I had it in here,
so one kind of contiguous piece of logic.
So we have this ability to theoretically
to fetch from fetch to fetch some data.
This seems like a great candidate
especially because if you find
a world where observable is getting
a little gnarly cuz it's getting
kind of big you do the same thing
you do with any other piece of code.
You take your big ugly piece of code and
you break it into smaller uglier
pieces of code and then you hide them
in different files [LAUGH] right?
And that is how you develop software.
So let's take this logic of fetching
because we're going to do it more
than once.
We'll say fetch data,
that seems like a great name for this.
And we can go ahead and
we can pop this in here.
And we'll grab all of this logic.
That should be it right?
Yep all this logic here,
and we'll pop it into that function.
Great, awesome.
So now our exhaust map
really becomes this.
This is what we're dealing with
whenever they hit the fetch button,
right, we're simply exhaust mapping this
factory function that will
return an observable, right?
Very similar to what we saw when we
returned one from throttling but
it's same thing you do
with a map on an array.
So we've got that.
This fetch button seems good, but
instead of having it immediately trigger,
we're going to start the process have at
a regular cadence fetching that data and
refreshing it.
So we'll go and
set like we've seen this before we saw
it earlier where we can map to true in
this case let's make sure the VS code
likes me today yep map to is available.
Sweet and then the other button is what,
it's a stop button this time.
So we'll call that stop button.
We'll even spell false
rights at this time.
So now we've got very similar to what
y'all implemented with the counter
before right we have the ability to
emit true events and false events.
What's the next step?
I need both of these?
>> Merge them.
>> Merge them, right?
Let's call it I don't know facts stream.
Naming things in computer science is hard.
We'll merge the fetch event and
the staff event,
And we'll pipe them.
So now we'll get both of these.
So exhaust map because we only wanted
to deal with one at a time but
in this case, these will be
synchronous but what is the correct?
If I want to switch between fetching and
not fetching what kind
of map should I use?
>> Switch.
>> Switch, right?
I will care about the most recent one.
I don't care if I use a merge map.
I'll keep making more streams, right?
Every time I start and stop, I'll create
that many more nevers or fetch events.
So what we want is a switch map so
we only care about the last
time they said start or stop.
We don't care what happened in
the past we live in the now we
deal with the current situation so
switch map.
We'll call it like,
should I or should fetch.
Seems more confident.
Cool, and let's see if they should fetch.
Does it go right?
Should I fetch?
But I don't this is the codes that
I'm trying to figure out man and
if they should fetch then what
we wanna do is return the timer.
The fire is immediately cause they hit
the button lets not into the war wait that
amount of time before the first event
is emitted timer fires immediately and
then again at whatever
cadence you tell it to.
So timer fire right now and then again
in five seconds every five seconds.
So we'll say what's a pipe and
I really I could do this all
subscribe is just going to be the final
event in this case what I really
need to do now is clean up the facts
in the error message every time, right?
Because this case we want to hide them and
replace them.
And I want to clear the error message
out like this fetch is only gonna give
us the final value of the subscribers
only give us the final value that's not
useful for us anymore.
So what we'll do is we'll
pipe in will say tap.
Clear there's Also tap and
I could do these both in the same.
I just chose not to And
now this is where we'll put that
exhaust map that we had before.
So when they should be fetching
every immediately then every five
seconds we'll clean up the UI and
we will go get new facts, right.
Now we could theoretically be like,
actually,
I want to keep the facts until
we get the new ones cool.
Like you can do that later and
if we should not be fetching,
Switch them to just a moment of silence,
right?
And so now we have the stream
that goes switch back and forth.
Again it's merging it's two sources
are the start and the stop button, so
the fetch and the stop button.
Based on that it is either going to point
us an observable that is gonna keep making
that API request and
the cool part about this is not
only gonna create the API request.
But it has all that retry and
error catching logic as well right or
if they say I'm no longer
interested in getting new
dog facts that's a personal
choice I respect that.
Then we switch them to
the never stream of silence.
So in they can toggle back and
forth between these.
So we don't need that anymore so
say our facts stream.
Subscribe add facts in this case,
so whenever a value comes
through which again, in the off
case it will never come through.
Thank you VS code.
In the fact stream nothing will ever come
through so there's nothing to add to
the page if I used empty instead it would
technically omit nothing then complete.
That's not what I want,
I just want radio silence until I
switch back to some of the values.
So is this what always blows up,
which is not what I want in this case.
And I might wanna keep some of the, I
guess I'm not showing there in this case.
So the code that I had before
was probably useful but
let's find we'll make it successful.
We can change it later if we want.
The code that I had
before it was like okay,
if it's an error show
the error I just said like,
no matter what are the facts if you get
this error object, things go poorly again.
Well, we can switch that back.
But we can also make the API fail.
All right, let's see.
All right, so I get some dog facts.
I think it still had a delay on it.
They clear out I get new ones.
This API still has a delay.
Like I said before,
we could choose to wait until we
got the new ones and then show them
that's again how that's when you start to
play around the order of operations here.
And you basically have all
the tools necessary to do that.
So you could theoretically immediately you
could even do in the subscribe like I have
new facts go clear out the other
ones as shown on the page, but
if I took out the delay,
we can see it as well.
So let's make a regular API again.
And so what's cool about this is now I
have complete control with just regular
JavaScript objects.
It's not like okay, set this interval
clear this interval on mount on load.
I have this stream I can listen to
it when I'm ready to listen to it.
I can stop listening when I want to stop
listen to I'm not thinking about intervals
or anything like that.
Again, like in a framework where you
might make this kind of interesting for
yourself is component did mount,
component will unmount, use effect.
What have you, like start listening,
stop listening so
here they'll just kind of
refresh at a regular interval.
We have dog facts
streaming at you live and
then we can stop it and
they will stop fetching, right?
So we combined a lot of concepts here.
Let's just kind of,
let's celebrate ourselves for a second and
talk about what we did.
We have a fetch situation
where not only will it catch
an error and display,
some UI, it will retry.
It'll handle all of the kind of
different error states around that.
We can then also take that and
set it to work on timers.
We took everything we learned about
the counter and setting timers and
starting and stopping flows.
We took everything we
learned about async and
we put them together into like
basically one kind of concept.
So you can start to take
these different ideas and
snap them together to solve different
problems that might come up.